------------- UrlyBird 1.1 Application UserGuide ------------- 

-------- Contents -------- 
1. Overview.
2. How to run the application.
3. Application configuration.
4. Starting the application in non-network mode.
5. Starting the application as server.
6. Starting the client application in network mode.
7. UrlyBird Gui.



-------- 1. Overview --------

The application helps the UrlyBird customer service representatives(CSRs) to book hotel rooms for their customers. 
CSRs can able to view the availability of rooms, name of the hotel, location and other information. 
One can even search rooms by hotel name, location or a combination of both. 

Note: The search is case sensitive 



-------- 2. How to run the application --------

The application could be started in 2 modes from the command line.
	Run the command:
	java -jar runme.jar [optional <application_mode>]
	If <application_mode> must be given, then it could be one of the following values "alone" or "server"
		alone = Starts the application client in stand alone mode
		server = Starts the application as server.
		no args = Starts the application client in a network mode. Must be used in combination with the "server" mode.  



-------- 3. Application Configuration --------
The configuration information with respect to the application is persisted in suncertify.properties file.
Any prior values in the file will be used in the application accordingly.
Note: The configuration values is persisted and overwritten between the runs of the application.
		
		
		
-------- 4. Starting the application in non-network mode --------
In order to start the application in stand alone mode one must run the following command in a command line
	java -jar runme.jar alone
	
	This will open a dialog box with default value of "db-1x1.db" in the database file input box. 
	If one wants to select a different file other than provided by default then they can do that with the help of browse button.
	
	Once the database path is provided the user must press OK which will save the database file path in the suncertify.properties file.
	Any failure to parse the database file(i.e invalid magic code ,wrong file etc) will exit the application.
	Otherwise the application will start by displaying a list of available rooms.
	Please see section 7 (UrlyBird Gui) below for further information about GUI functionalities.
	
	Note: In this mode both the gui and the database will run in the same VM.
	 


-------- 5. Starting the application as server --------
In order to start the application as server one must run the following command in the command line.
	java -jar runme.jar server
	
	This will open a dialog box where you must enter the database file location in the relative field, and the port you want the  urlybird server to run.
	If the database file is parsed properly a dialog box should appear with a message 'UrlyBird Server started.'.

	In order to stop the server you can either choose to close the window or press exit from the file menu.

!Important: to work with the client application in a network mode the server application must be running!
	

-------- 6. Starting the client application in network mode --------

In order to start the client application in network mode one must run the following command in the command line.
	java -jar runme.jar
	
	This will open a dialog box where one muse enter the host name and port number where the server application is running(see 5.) and press OK.
	Default values : localhost, port : 1099
	If the connection is not established the application will display the error message and will be terminated. Corresponding stacktrace will be shown on the console. 
	Otherwise a window showing the list of available rooms will be opened.
	Please see section 7 (UrlyBird Gui) below for further information about GUI functionalities.
	

-------- 7. UrlyBird Gui --------

	The Gui is consists of file menu, Search & Book and a Table to display the list of rooms.
	
	File Menu:
		The menu bar contains only exit option. One can either close the application by selecting exit.
	
	Search: 
		One can search from the available rooms to match the hotel name or location or both. 
		The values could be provided in the respective fields.
		
		Note : The search is case sensitive and must exactly match the data in the record otherwise no data will be displayed.
		
		If no values are provided then the search will fetch all records.
		
	
	Reserve:
		One must select a record and press Book button. One must enter a 8 digit customer id in the pop up dialog while booking, otherwise the system will display error.
		One can never able to book any room if its already booked. One can identify if the record is booked or not by looking at the customer id.
		
		Customer Id must have the following properties :
			1) Must be 8 digits
			2) No special characters.
				
			
	Records:
		The records are displayed in the table the order is as follows:
			1) Sr. No
			2) Hotel Name
			3) Location
			4) Size
			5) Smoking
			6) Price
			7) Date 
			8) CustomerId
			
			 		 




																		Thank you!!!